So, we're gonna talk about React Router.
So in various permutations of this class,
I've taught various versions of
React Router as well as Reach Router
which was written by the same person but
then they merged back into React Router.
If that sounds confusing,
it's because it's very confusing.
I do really like React router that's why
I continue to teach it the thing that I
find frustrating about React router is
that it feels like every major version is
a wild rewrite of the entire library.
So I'm just I'm forewarning you here that
if you choose to build React Router into
your website,
there's a decent chance that V7, V8,
V9 of this will be while they're
different in the previous one.
Most of the libraries maintain some
semblance and backwards compatibility, and
that is not their strong
suit over React Router.
But it is the best one,
objectively, it's very fast,
it's very nice to use and they're
re-writing it to make it much better.
So I'll let you decide on that.
Now and React router is written
by the same people that do remix
right remix.run so yeah they
are they are very good at routers.
I know Ryan I think Michael as
well the two authors I also did
Ember Router way back in the day,
like before React was even out.
So they've been working on routers for
like a decade now.
So, it is by far the most
popular one in the community.
It's the one I'm gonna
show you how to use today.
I think it's quite good.
This is not a React Router of course, I'm
gonna kind of, scratched the surface with
it here, but there's a lot of depth
here that I'm not I'm gonna cover.
So why would you want
a client side router.
Well I'm sure many of you have heard of
a SPA, write a single page application,
and this allows you to basically
have a user land on a page.
And then when they navigate from page to
page on your website they're not actually
making a full request to your server
they're actually just routing
to a different page inside of
your JavaScript application.
This is helpful because they don't have
to do like a full like latency kind
of first handshake back to your server and
have a comeback and
all that kind of stuff all over again.
It's just all done on
on this on your client.
So that can be positive.
It's good for if you have like an,
like a real application for
something like Netflix is a good example,
right?
We use React Router when I was at Netflix,
because it's an app, right?
You're actually moving from page to page,
but
it's actually different parts of an app.
If you're doing something
like a trying to think like
well what a good example would be.
I don't know like a like a Wiki page right
where it's it actually is just like a web
page where every web page is separate
maybe a router is not the best idea and
you could just server side rendered and
sent down to static HTML files.
That might make more sense.
Anyway, I'm trying to just kind
of delineate, sometimes you might
want a router or sometimes you might
just want like a normal web page.
And both of those are valid solutions.
So we're gonna make the single page
application because I imagine many of you
will need to do that.
So I want you to go over
to your application and
I want you to make a page
called details.js.
Then I want you to make the most
basic thing you can think of,
const details equals arrow function and
just return,
Whatever you want and
then export default details.
So I used to put curse words in there,
[LAUGH] And
then you can probably finish
the rest of the story in your head.
[LAUGH] I shipped it to production
once at a company, let's go with very
conservative religious values,
and they were very upset with me.
It was objectively funny.
[LAUGH] But
they didn't find it as funny as I did.
I'll put it that way.
So that's why I do this now.
I'm getting less trouble for that.
But anyway, let's keep going so
let's install React Router
dash DOM got yeah,
you can get rid of us to bug value here.
Okay, and I want you to go to your
terminal, you can stop your server for
just a second and
I want you to say npm install.
This one's not -D, because it's this
one's actually a production dependency.
So NPM I react-router-dom@6.2.1 If
you're getting a dependency error and
it won't let you install it you
can actually just say --force.
I don't imagine anyone should
be seeing that right now.
You'd be seeing that if you're
on React Router eight, or
sorry if you're on React 18.
If you're trying to do this course
on React 18 you'll see that error.
React-router-dom has stripped pure
dependencies on React and it says like,
I only support this version
to this version of React and
18 would fall outside of that.
So it still works by the way,
you totally can.
It just won't work right now.
Yeah, so you just do the same thing,
but --force and that'll make it do it.
Okay, I'm gonna run my server again.
Once you have the two app.js.
And then up here, we're going
to import BrowserRouter, Routes and
Route from react-router-dash-dot.
So the first thing I'm going to point
out here, why is it react-router?
Well, there's also
react-router-native as well.
So they put out two different
versions of this library.
Once for react router, or sorry,
react native ones for react.
Because that work more or less the same
way but that's why the dash dom is there.
They used to make you
install React router and
react-router -dom kind of like
there's like react-dom and react.
And they eventually just did away with it.
No, you just have to install one library.
Okay, and then up here we're also going
to import Details from ./Details, okay?
So, Inside of
Strict Mode here we're
going to put BrowserRouter.
And inside a BrowserRouter,
we're gonna put like a nice
little h1 here of adopt me.
So we're just gonna move that I guess.
And then inside of that,
we're gonna put some routes
And then we're gonna do a route
here of path equals /details/:ID.
And the elements that it's going to render
is going to be Details, oops, Details.
Okay, we're gonna have another
route underneath that.
Oops, I did that wrong.
Like that rather.
Okay and then underneath that we'll
do another route this will just be
the homepage so just be slash and
we'll start do Search Params on that page.
Okay and then we can get rid
of this stuff down here.
And I can get rid of that so
you can actually see more of this.
So let's talk about what we did here.
What is browser router?
It's basically saying that everything
inside of here is being handled by some
sort of router.
So for example, I could have I
don't know an h1 outside of here.
And this will just like not be
available inside of the browser.
So I couldn't use any sort of
like links inside of here.
I couldn't use any of those
browser router components.
This is like a parent component that
kind of governs all the internal
state of the router.
The other thing is you can
have multiple routers.
Now why would you want to
So, you can actually have like
contextual side navs, right?
So let's say I have like a page,
a blog post, and
maybe like little helper
things on the side of my page.
I can actually have a separate router that
goes over to that part of the page and
routes differently than what
the core part of my page, right?
So you can actually have
a multiple different routers,
that's I'd say that's pretty uncommon.
And there's other ways of handling
that which we might talk about later.
But we're getting into kind of
the advanced use cases of of routers
at the moment.
Yeah.
>> Can the path also be relative and
what would it be relative to?
>> Okay, yeah.
So let's talk about route components here.
I'll get to it in a sec.
So, the next thing you've seen
in here is the routes component.
If you remember the old versions of
React Router, this is like the switch
component that basically says one of
these is going to be rendered at a time.
So for example if I go to
details/5 technically by
regex match by path matching
this path will actually
match it because it'll match
it everything to the left
of it which is kind of
relative here matches this.
Suffice to say, both of these would
match the path slash, so /detail/5.
There used to be a problem with the old
versions of React Router that you'd
have two routes that would
show up at the same time.
So you'd have to have the switch component
that was a okay only render the first one
that matches.
They kinda did away with all that stuff.
So, if that all sounded
complicated one it was and
two don't worry about it [LAUGH] Unless
you're on old versions of react router.
They now have adopted how Reach Router
works, which uses an internal scoring
system of like what's the most
specific path that matches this?
So now /details/5 matches that and
it matches it with a more specific score.
You can think of it like a CSS selector
basically, where it's more specific
therefore it will use this one first,
no matter what order they came in.
Whereas before, with React Router 5,
it mattered what order they came in.
So they took a very complicated thing and
they made it way simpler to use.
So, in other words, this works,
how you would expect it to.
And I just want you to be grateful for
that fact because I worked for
a long time when it didn't
work how you expect it to.
So there's a question about let's
talk about path for a second.
There is a way to do relative paths and
you can do that with like nested
routers or nested routes.
So if I go inside of details, and let's
say I could put another routes inside
of that it would be relative
to the parent routes, right?
So if I put a route inside of details, and
I had the person had two
more routes in there,
one for about one for contact.
If the person clicked on one
of the links to take to go
to the contact page in there,
the URL would be/details/the number.
This is a variable by the way,
the colon means variable /contact, right?
So it'd be relative to the parent routes.
So that's as relativistic as
it gets relative to the parent
route there's not anything more than that.
I think you're gonna have
a base route as well, but
it's gonna be the base of
wherever this is being hosted.
Okay, then so
let's talk about this for a second.
I want to have a variable here, right?
So I want to be able to
have like a details page.
But I want to have a details page for
all of my various different
pets that I can adopt, right?
So that's why I have this colon ID here.
This will be the ID of the petthat's
being clicked on, right?
So for example, if I go back over to
my page, Luna I know for example,
her ID is one because she's number one but
there you go there's my beautiful page.
You can see here the ID here is one.
So that's how you do variable here
are like route params is with the colon.
And anything after the colon is going
to be the name of whatever it was so
I could put like pet ID here and
then it would be available as pet ID
inside of those wrapped components.
Okay, then let's talk
a second about element.
This is whatever you want to render
if the if this route is matched,
so in this case,
I want to render the details page.
Again, previous versions of React Router,
this was actually you would actually just
pass it the entire unrendered component
you pass it like details like this.
And then it would do the like,
basically you'd pass it the class and
then it would take care
of the instance for you.
Now they switched it so that you
actually give it an instance of it.
Why?
I'm sure they had some
good reason actually.
I think I linked to the rationality,
if you wanna go read.
It made a lot of difference
to a lot of people.
And there was a large argument about it,
and as well as things that are just like,
whatever, it's functionally
the same to me.
I think I have, yeah, there you go,
advantages of route elements.
People just get really up in arms about
APIs, especially when they don't Matter.
I'm sure I'm offending someone by saying.
That as you can see,
that really bothers me.
One of the great things about
React Router is it's really accessible,
they do a ton of work to make sure that,
the focus tracks really well.
And that if you navigate from page to page
that they're focusing on the right things,
and that they're firing
off the right events so
that screen readers can pick it up.
So I think that's probably one of
the biggest reasons I use React Router is
accessibility, particularly around single
page applications is extremely difficult.
And if you don't know that means you
probably haven't worked with it enough.
So in other words, use React Router for
that reason that like that's
one of the best reasons
to use it is taking care
of all that kind of stuff.
Cool and I think that's everything that
I have to say about React Router so
you have any questions about React Router.
>> Can you change that ID
veriable to something else?
>> Yeah.
>> Does that have to come from the API or?
>> However you want, yeah, good question.
I called ID because I'm not very creative.
Other questions?
>> Yeah, I've kind of a follow up question
to the question that was just asked.
Can you contain multiple variables there?
So like,
could you I guess maybe that's it.
I'm convoluting it but yeah.
>> Yep that works.
>> Cool, okay.
>> Yeah, the world is your oyster